Hey everybody,
I'm really excited to be here today.
This is a continuation of
our Vue learning journey.
Today we're gonna be building
web apps with Vue and Nuxt and
I'm so excited about this course.
I love working with Frontend Masters and
really thank them for
allowing me to do this
course on their platform.
We're gonna be doing
a ton of live code today.
We're gonna be building
all sorts of cool stuff.
So I'm super excited to be here.
This is me as Optimus Prime because
we're gonna optimize some of our code.
That's a terrible joke [LAUGH].
If you need to get ahold of me,
this is my Twitter handle.
I am VP of Developer Experience
Engineering at Netlify, and
I also work on the Vue core team.
Lately I've been focusing a lot on
the documentation as we have just
come out with this major Vue 3 release.
Cool, so welcome.
Some of the prerequisites for this course.
Either you should have watched the intro
to Vue workshop because we're gonna be
assumptive that you have some
of that knowledge already.
Or, going through the Vue documentation or
any kind of foundational Vue knowledge.
So we're not gonna start
from the very beginning.
What we're gonna do is we're gonna take
the knowledge that we've already built and
start to build web applications and
see what that's like.
We're also gonna be
using modern JavaScript.
So if you need a brush up on any of that,
then there's other courses on this
platform that are really awesome for that.
Cool, so what we're gonna learn today,
tons of stuff actually.
We're gonna learn how to set
up applications with Vue-cli.
We're gonna set up applications
with Nuxt as well.
And we're gonna kind of see
the differences between those two.
We're gonna do different
types of configuration and
we're also gonna deploy our apps.
We're gonna deploy our apps
using this Nuxt static mode and
it creates dynamic routes for us.
So that's gonna be
really exciting to show.
We're also gonna be working
a lot with a Vuex store and
see how we can do centralized state
management for an application.
We're gonna use directives effectively,
we're gonna use directives for
all sorts of things.
We're gonna use directives for
the things that you might have seen in the
last course like V4, v if conditionals.
But we're also gonna use it for some
things like emit and to bind to props.
We're gonna create dynamic
pages from API data.
So just the way that you might
in a bigger application.
We're gonna make a food application
where we bring in an API from AWS.
And we work with that API to
generate dynamic pages and data.
We're gonna create reusable components.
We're gonna make components
that can be encapsulated and
be reused throughout an application.
And we're gonna use Composition API in
Nuxt at the end of the day, so I'm gonna
show you what it takes to work with
Composition and API in Nuxt right now.
As we're kind of getting Nuxt settled
into this new Composition API world.
And some of the gotchas that you should
be aware of as you're working with that.
So here are the projects that we're
gonna be building through the day.
For the warm up, and by warm up, I mean
like for the first hour or so maybe more,
we're gonna build a game and
this game is going to be very, very silly.
But the thing about games that I
really like is that you really able to
focus on state management in the game.
There's a ton of state that
you're focusing on when you
track what people's scores are and where
they are in the game and things like that.
So it's actually a really good use
case for building an application.
Then we're gonna do
a more common use case,
we're gonna create a food
ordering application.
So like Eat 24 or Doordash, or
one of those kind of thing.
But it's our own, and
it will also have bad puns.
We're going to create
dynamic pages from API data.
We're gonna use slots where
you're gonna use cart logic.
We're even gonna cover
validation at the very end.
And then the last thing we'll do,
is we'll go over Composition API in
Nuxt and show you how to get all sorted.
So the first thing that we're going over
is that warm up that will be done with
Vue-cli.
The second thing that we're
gonna go over is gonna use Nuxt.
And the last thing we'll use Nuxt as well.
So, if you are curious where
to find all of the resources,
here is a link to all the resources.
It's SGitHub, adras,
building-web-apps-with-vue.
In this repo, you will find a bunch
of problems and solutions and
problems and solutions.
We will also see a bunch of
resources that we're gonna use.
So as we come up here,
I'm gonna go through all of the tools
that I'm using for all of these.
It has all of the slides,
they all have the same password of Vue.
And then we have all of these
directories listings so
that you can see how we're
building everything out.
For the game application,
we have the game resources directory,
which as you might assume,
has all of the resources for this game.
Then we have the game problem and
solution because I'm gonna give you an
exercise so that you get used to building.
For the food application,
we have a number of resources and
we're gonna spend more time
on that food application.
So we have a number of exercises
through the day, problem and solution,
problem, solution, problem and solution.
And then for the Composition API,
we have the start and the solution for
you to check out.
We're not gonna cover how to
build an API in this course.
But I did write a gigantic guide that
shows you how to set up an API with AWS,
and Lambda, and Dynamo dB.
So if you're curious about that piece,
I've given you some resources for
you to continue your journey learning.
In terms of tools, I'm gonna be using
VS code through most of this course.
My terminal is hyper and
I use this thing called hyper power,
which sprays particles everywhere, and
I have some bash aliases that I can.
I wrote an article about how I set
them up, I can link them up here.
There are also Vue chrome devtools.
You'll see those pop up as I'm using Vue.
There's going to be a little
v that will be highlighted as
I'm using the Vue chrome devtools.
Right now there's a version
of the chrome devtools,
that's a number three beta release.
We're not gonna use that in this course,
because it doesn't connect to Nuxt yet.
So we're gonna use the older
version of the chrome devtools.
But if you watched the other course, it
has a link to the Vue 3 chrome devtools.
If you're watching this a little
bit further in the future,
they will merge right?
And we will come back to that stable
release of Vue chrome devtools.
I'm going to be using some snippets that
I've built called Vue VS code snippets.
I mean, I made these but I really enjoy
working with them because they help me
spit out boilerplate code really quickly.
And you can see when
I'm working with this,
how fast I'm able to work
with this application.
I did add in some Vue 3 and
Composition API snippets.
So I now have support for that.
We have TypeScript support as well and
SASS and LESS.
And you can see there's kind of
documentation for all of these snippets.
There's template, script,
and all of these snippets.
Vue Composition API, Vuex, Vue Router.
Vue Config, Nuxt Config.
But also VSCode, if you start to type,
VSCode will give you some hints, and
you can see that as we're working with it.
It's not required that you use these, but
just if you're curious how I'm working so
quickly with that code.
My VS code theme is NightOwl.
That's another thing that I
built was this VS Code theme.
So you'll see my syntax
highlighting does that.
I also use font ligatures.
So you'll see, instead of three lines for
an equals, you'll see three lines.
And I'll show you that as soon as
I get working inside the code.
I mentioned the hyper and
hyperpower for the particles.
I'm using a command line tool called hub
to create repos from my command line.
So you'll see me do that a couple
of times during this course.
I'll create a private repo
from the command line and
then it will exist on GitHub.
Here is the article for
all of my bash aliases I mentioned before.
And I'm using a thing called snippets
lab to gather snippets that I reuse for
multiple projects as well.
And I'll explain that when we dive in.